- [Instructor] Cradle isn't the only choice
for building Java applications.
Many Java developers prefer to use Maven instead.
Both tools are great choices,
and you'll actually find many similarities between them,
but there are some differences.
So let's take a closer look at Maven.
Ubuntu makes it very simple to install Maven
on a Linux workstation through the package manager.
Just type the command sudo apt install,
then Maven.
Now, if this were a Maven installation on windows,
we would need to follow the instructions at the link below.
Once we execute the command,
it will begin to download and install Maven
on our workstations.
There, it looks like it finished.
Let's go ahead and verify the installation
by typing mvn - - version.
And there we can see Maven 3.6.3's installed.
Anytime we want to execute a command with Maven,
we would just type mvn.
Eclipse also has great support for Maven,
and by default Eclipse ships with m2e plugin.
We can use it to create a Maven project inside of eclipse.
To do that,
just go to file then new and then select Maven project.
Here, we'll want to check the box
to create a simple project.
This will allow us to create a bare bones Maven project.
Once you've checked that, go ahead and hit next.
And then here we'll need to provide some information
about our project.
The first thing we'll need to specify is the group ID.
So I'm going to use com.linkedin.javacd.
Then for the artifact ID,
I'm just going to call our project "Playground,"
and we'll leave the version as is.
Now these three fields, the group ID, the artifact ID
and the version, make up the Maven coordinates.
Maven coordinates are used to identify exactly
which project we're working on at which point
in its history.
It's important to understand the Maven coordinates
because they're used for other purposes
like identifying dependencies and plugins.
With the information for our project in place,
Let's go ahead and hit the finish button to create it.
There you can see that Eclipse builds out our new project,
and we can expand it to see its structure.
Here you'll see some directories
that probably look familiar.
Directories like src/main/java, src/main/resources,
src/test/java, and so on.
We saw these in Gradle, and actually this is something
Gradle borrowed from Maven.
By default, Maven defines these directories
as the conventional locations where it expects
to find things like our tests or our source code
or different configuration files.
So then when Maven's performing a build,
it knows it can just look in these directories,
and there, it will find the resources that it expects.
Now within the root of our project.
You'll also notice the pom.xml file.
It's where we specify all of the information
and configuration for our Maven project.
Like Gradle, Maven also has a wrapper,
which is provided through a popular third-party plugin.
It's supposed to be included in Maven four
once it's released.
So in the future, if you are using Maven four,
the installation we're about to walk through
wouldn't be necessary.
Here's the github page for that plugin.
If we scroll down on it,
we'll find the command
that we can use to install the wrapper
within our Maven project.
Let's go ahead and we'll copy that command.
And then we'll navigate to a terminal
and inside of the terminal,
I'm just going to head into our new playground project.
And here, I'm going to go ahead and execute the command.
This will begin to install the rapper in our project.
Let's take a look here.
There you'll see the Maven wrapper.
The script is named mvnw.
So anytime that we want to execute a goal or a phase
with Maven,
we can use the rapper to do that.
Let's try it out.
So using the wrapper within the project,
I'm going to execute the package phase within Maven.
This is going to build our software and package it
into an archive.
There we can see that our project was placed into a jar,
and that our build completed successfully.
So now we're up and running with Maven,
and we've performed our first build.
However, it didn't really do too much.
Let's fix that over the next few lessons.